Pronounced /pju:siks/

#### PROBLEM DEFINITION
Currently if one needs to port existing C/C++ code to wasm, one can use emscripten which assumes a Linux project or LLVM wasm backend which will most likely be linked against a platform-specific libc. Code generated by these toolchains are not portable leading to some runtmes providing some emulation layer to make the code work on other platforms. There are several issues with this method and one of it is that code that runs efficiently on one platform may have terrible performance on another.

This standard is meant to solve that problem by defining an [_exhaustive_](#) specification of a modern API an embedder can provide. The API should  make system features accessible to a webassembly instance.

#### NOT POSIX COMPATIBLE
POSIX is related but an inadequate standard and this standard won't be compatible with it because of the following reasons among others:
- POSIX is [outdated][1] and incomplete for the interface requirements of modern applications
- POSIX is not portable across all major platforms.

This standard will define how these APIs will translate to native syscalls and they must have similar behavior accross platforms. It's current focus will be on MacOS, FreeBSD, Windows and Linux.
This standard will cover the following areas for a
Since portability is of major importance to this standard, it is imperative to consider major operating systems and their syscall interfaces in the deliberation of APIs of this standard.

#### CAPABILITIES
This standard won't create restrictions on what system resources can be accessed unless it prevents cross-platform portability. Instead, this will provide a well-defined semantics of the capabilities of each exposable interface.

### NON-GOAL
This standard will not provide extension APIs (like ioctl), instead it will iteratively expand and add more APIs.

#### API
For a start, the standard will define the APIs for the following areas.

- [FILES AND DIRECTORIES](file-and-dirs/README.md)

- [PROCESSES](processes/README.md)

- [SIGNALS](signals/README.md)

- [IO](io/README.md)

- [THREADS](threads/README.md)

- [CLOCKS](clocks/README.md)

- [TIMERS](timers/README.md)

- [SOUND](sound/README.md)

- [GRAPHICS (WEBGL/OPENGLES 2)](graphics/README.md)


#### FEATURE TESTING
On request, an embedder should be able provide information about the existence of an API.

#### A REFERENCE C LIBRARY IMPLEMENTATION
As a wa there is the need for a libc implementation that conforms to this API

#### HELP NEEDED
For this standard to be useful, successful and encompassing, expertise and skills from different fields is needed. Contributions is needed.

[1]: http://www.cs.columbia.edu/~vatlidak/resources/POSIXmagazine.pdf
